---
layout: post
title: "Beating the McKinsey PSG Simulation in Python"
date: 2022-11-18
---

McKinsey, one of the biggest and most prestigious consulting firms in the world, has done away with traditional question-answer assessment tests in their recruiting process and replaced these with the interesting nontraditional <a href="https://www.mckinsey.com/careers/mckinsey-digital-assessment">Solve</a><br> game. This consists of two parts: A bootleg <a href="https://store.steampowered.com/app/613880/Zoo_Tycoon_Ultimate_Animal_Collection/">Zoo Tycoon</a> ecosystem builder, and a bootleg [Plants vs Zombies](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ea.game.pvzfree_row&hl=en_US&gl=US&pli=1) tower defense style game. The game is intended to assess applicants' strategic thinking skills, claiming that the test cannot be effectively prepared for, although being a lifelong player of strategy and simulation video games <i>might</i> give a slight advantage. 
MConsulting Prep has created a simulation game called McKinsey PSG Simulation influenced by this -- a fun video game that claims to be inspired by McKinsey's Solve, and also consists of bootleg  Zoo Tycoon and Plants vs Zombies. The bootleg Zoo Tycoon portion, which I will refer to as the ecosystem builder, essentially asks the player to solve a certain feasibility problem under rules and constraints laid out in-game. As it's just finding a feasible solution to a given set of rules, it is very easily solvable in Python or the programming language of your choice. All we need to do is simulate the rules of the game and search for a solution. <br><br>
A repository of Python code to easily win the ecosystem builder is available on [my GitHub page](https://github.com/PhillipKerger/). <br><br>

When we play the  MConsulting Prep McKinsey PSG Simulation (MCPMKPSGS henceforth) we really are doing this because we want to play a consulting simulator. But of course, if there is a problem that can be phrased as a satisfyability problem over some possible data, no consultant should be solving this problem in their head or with pen and paper. A good consultant would make use of modern computing resources and mathematical techniques from operations research and optimization to solve such a problem. Since our goal in playing the MCPMKPSGS is to get an authentic consulting simulator experience, we should use all these kinds of tools that are available. <i>Such a game should not be beatable by prepping some simple code.</i> 

<br> <br>
A detailed description of the code is available in the GitHub, as well as in the comment portions of the code itself. 
<br>To summarize how it works: The user needs to input the data of organisms that can all inhabit the same part of an ecosystem. Then, the user specifies some reasonable set of organism distributions over apex predators, regular predators, and producers to check. Then a simple blind random search is done to find the best combination of organisms, where "best" is with respect to the total amount of excess calories in the system at the end of the feeding process. 
